---
title: "You are my Sunshine"
description: "Create a medium to help people understand energy output from a solar panel, and a tool to plan energy consumption based on expected energy output from solar technologies."
category: "The Earth and Us"
href: "https://2017.spaceappschallenge.org/challenges/earth-and-us/you-are-my-sunshine"
slug: "earth-and-us/you-are-my-sunshine"
resources: 
  - name: "Resources"
    links: 
      - title: "Flyover Country app"
        url: "http://fc.umn.edu/" 
      - title: "In-The-Sky.org"
        url: "https://in-the-sky.org/satmap_worldmap.php" 
      - title: "OpenFlights Airport, Airline, and Route Databases"
        url: "http://openflights.org/data.html" 
      - title: "FlightAware"
        url: "https://flightaware.com/" 
      - title: "The Flight Paths Tracker: How to Monitor and Analyse Air Traffic Above Individual Locations"
        url: "http://datadrivenjournalism.net/featured_projects/the_flight_paths_tracker_how_to_monitor_and_analyse_air_traffic" 
  - name: "NASA Resources"
    links: 
      - title: "NASA Earth Observatory:"
        url: "https://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/Features/WorldOfChange/" 
      - title: "Quantifying Changes in the Land Over Time: A Landsat Classroom Activity"
        url: "https://landsat.gsfc.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/Landsat_QuantifyChanges.pdf" 
      - title: "NASA Earth Observatory:"
        url: "https://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/Features/WorldOfChange/cape_cod.php" 
      - title: "NASA Images of Change"
        url: "https://climate.nasa.gov/images-of-change?id=605#605-heavy-rains-flood-peru" 
---

### **Background:**

Earth-orbiting spacecrafts, such as the International Space Station (ISS),
require a source of power to be able to perform various functions in space.
For example, ISS relies on electrical power to allow the crew to live
comfortably, operate the station, and perform scientific experiments.

In space, the sun is a readily available source of energy. NASA has, and
continues to develop technologies to convert sunlight into power for ISS and
satellite missions, including the Orbiting Carbon Observatory 2 (OCO-2). These
technologies include photovoltaic systems (such as solar panels) and solar
batteries, which are charged during the sunlit part of the spacecraft’s orbit,
storing energy to be used when the spacecraft is not in direct sunlight.

Solar energy technologies are critical to current Earth-observing missions, as
well as to our next steps in deep space, including the journey to Mars.
Additionally, these technologies have significant applications for ensuring
access to reliable and sustainable energy for all on Earth.

In fact, the current NASA-funded Hawaii Space Exploration Analog and
Simulation V (HI-SEAS V), a habitat on an isolated Mars-like site on the Mauna
Loa side of the Big Island of Hawaii, relies on photovoltaic panels and solar
batteries to power its long-duration Mars analog simulation studies. The crew
of six uses electricity generated by solar technologies to conduct activities
ranging from conducting experiments to cooking and exercising, and thus they
must strictly calculate and monitor energy generation by their solar panels.

The concept of solar energy is not instinctively tangible. While we may
appreciate the capacity of solar panels and solar batteries, many of us don’t
understand how much energy a solar panel actually produces.

**Your challenge is to create a means to help people understand how much energy comes from a solar panel. Take your solution a step further, and create a tool to allow the HI-SEAS crew, or other explorers reliant on solar panels, to plan their daily energy consumption for all their human necessities and other planned activities based on expected energy output from solar panels.**

_This challenge addresses the following Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),
adopted by the United Nations General Assembly to engage all countries and all
stakeholders in a collaborative partnership. The SDGs aim to build a better
future for all people by achieving sustainable development in three dimensions
– economic, social, and environmental – in the spirit of strengthened global
solidarity:_

  * _Goal 7.1: By 2030, ensure universal access to affordable, reliable and modern energy services._  

  * _Goal 7.2: By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix._

### **Considerations: **

  * There are many different types of solar panels. Think of how they are built, what use they are designed for, and where they are to be used (for example, on Earth or in space).  

  * How would environmental conditions, such as a cloudy or a dusty day, affect energy generated by a solar panel? For example, if it’s an overcast day, will you be able to charge your computer or take a hot shower?   

  * Compare your solar panel data with information about the energy consumption of various common household things that might be needed in the HI-SEAS habitat, or other habitats.  

  * How would the location of a solar panel affect its energy output? How much energy does the same panel generate in various locations on Earth versus in space?


